.TH GLIB2INV 1 "20 Feb 2009" "MTINV Version 2.0" "MTINV Toolkit V2"

.SH NAME 
glib2inv

.SH SYNOPSIS
glib2inv par= [no]verbose [no]dumpsac [no]dumpgrn [no]special
.br
 
.SH DESCRIPTION
Reads the Green's function library (as a function of depth) for a single source station pair
and process the Green's functions (interpolate/decimate and bandpass filter) for moment tensor inversion.

.SH REQUIRED PARAMETERS

.TP
.B par={string}
The file name of the parameter file.  See format of this file below (PARAMETER FILE FORMAT).

.SH OPTIONAL PARAMETERS

.TP
.B [no]verbose
Verbosy output for debugging is \fIverbose\fP and for no verbosy output is \fInoverbose\fP [optional, default verbose off].

.TP
.B [no]dumpgrn
Write out "Dump" the Green's functions as SAC formatted binary files [optional, default nodumpgrn].

.TP
.B [no]dumpsac
Write out "Dump" the Green's functions as SAC formatted binary files [optional, default nodumpsac].  The focal mechanism,
depth, and moment is applied from the input parameter file EV line (see format below).

.SH PARAMETER FILE FORMAT

.TP
.B # 
A '#' in the first column signifies that the following is a non printing comment

.TP
.B CM 
A 'CM ' in columns 1-3 marks the beginning of a comment, typically the region, area, city and country name 
for reference purposes only.

.TP
.B OT
A 'OT ' in columns 1-3 is followed by the earthquake origin time string in year/month/day,hour:minute:seconds format, (e.g.,
2005/06/12,15:41:46.000 ).  Origin time is required for setting the origin time in the 
synthetics and shifting the observed seismograms in time to improve the fit the synthetics and percent double couple component.

.TP
.B  EV
A 'EV ' in columns 1-3 is followed by six free formatted floating point values:  strike, dip, rake, Mw, event_longitude, event_latitude, and event_depth.  Only event_longitude and event_latitude need to be set for the correct calculation of the source and receiver azimuth and distance.  Should be the same as the \fIevla=\fP and \fIevlo=\fP values used to calculate the Green's function library using "mkgrnlib".  Other values can be set to zero and are only used to forward calculate synthetic ground displacements when the dump option is set (dumpsac).

.TP
All other lines are for station and synthetic data processing parameters.  There are 18 columns in the following order:
.sp
.B sta, net, model, np, pas, lf, hf, nt, dt, tr, tt, grdmo, mulfac, used, ts, Zmulfac, Rmulfac, Tmulfac.

.B sta=
station code (see stadb file).

.B net=
network code (see stadb file).

.B model=
velocity model name (without .mod extension)

.B np=
number of poles (0,1,2,3,4,5,...) for Butterworth bandpass filter

.B pas=
number of passes (1 or 2) for Butterworth bandpass filter

.B lf=
low frequency corner in Hz for Butterworth bandpass filter

.B hf=
high frequency corner in Hz for Butterworth bandpass filter

.B nt=
number of points (in power of 2)

.B dt=
sampling rate in sec/sample 

.B tr=
rise time or duration of ramp in trapezoid function in seconds

.B tt=
duration of boxcar portion of trapezoid function in seconds (tt=0 then triangle function of duration 2*tr)

.B grdmo=
Ground motion type is either 'd' for displacement or 'v' for velocity (no default)

.B mulfac=
Multiplcation factor applied to all components for this station. Useful for applying gain corrections easily.
Default is 1.  

.B used=
Use this station for inversion 'y' or just make a preduction 'n'

.B ts=
Time shift for all components in seconds.  Negative is backward time shift in time and positive shifts are forward shift in time.
Default is 0;

.B Zmulfac=
Vertical component multplication factor

.B Rmulfac=
Radial component multplication factor

.B Tmulfac=
Transverse component multplication factor



.SH EXAMPLE PARAMETER FILE (glib2inv.par) 
.br
#### Region Comment ####
.br
CM Anza, California
.br
#### Origin Time ####
.br
#   year/mo/da,hr:mn:sec
.br
OT 2005/06/12,15:41:46.00
.br
#### Forward calculations ####
.br
#    str dip  rak  Mw    evlo      evla     Z
.br
EV   41  87    29  5.1  -116.573  33.529    14
.br
#
.br
#sta net model np pas  lf   hf  nt  dt   tr  tt grdmo mulfac used ts Zmulfac Rmulfac Tmulfac
.br
BAR  CI  wus   3  2   0.03 0.10 256 0.25 0.0 0.0  d    1.0    y   0.0  1.0   1.0     1.0
.br
GSC  CI  wus   3  2   0.02 0.08 256 0.4  0.0 0.0  d    1.0    y   0.0  1.0   1.0     1.0
.br

.SH Example
.br
glib2inv par=glib2inv.par noverbose

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR mkgrnlib (1),
.IR grnlib2sac (1),
.IR sacdata2inv (1),
.IR mtinv (1)
.IR rdseed (1)
