.TH GRNLIB2SAC 1 "20 Feb 2009" "MTINV Version 2.0" "MTINV Toolkit V2.0"

.SH NAME 
grnlib2sac

.SH SYNOPSIS
grnlib2sac glib= z= [no]dumpgn [no]verbose tr= tt= [no]noise type=

.TP
.B if noise
nMw= seed= 

.TP 
.B if type=0
Mxx= Myy= Mzz= Mxy Mxz= Myz= Mo=

.TP
.B if type=1
str= dip= rak= Mw=

.TP 
.B if type=2
str= dip= rak= Mw= Piso=

.SH DESCRIPTION
Computes the ground displacements (z,r,t) given one type of source input, type=0
is the tensor input, type=1 is the focal mechanism and seismic moment, or type=2
which seperates the moment into isotropic and double couple.  The synthetic seismograms can
be convolved with a 
source time function (ramp rise time and boxcar time lengths).  The program reads the 
Green's function library (as a function of depth) for a single source station pair.  The output are 
SAC formatted binary files.  Use sac2xy.c to get the raw ASCII data.  The program is ideal for when
quick forward calculations are needed to check recorded data.  Version 2 include a feature that
adds noise relative to a moment magnitude.  

.SH REQUIRED PARAMETERS

.TP
.B glib={string}
The file name of the Green's function library ".glib" file. 

.TP
.B z={float}
The source depth.  Must be a depth computed in the Green's function library ".glib" file.  See par file from mkgrnlib

.SH OPTIONAL PARAMETERS

.TP
.B [no]dumpgrn
write out only Green's functions for z= depth.

.TP
.B [no]verbose
verbosy output for diagnosis

.TP
.B tr={float}
The ramp rise time in seconds.  If tr=0 and tt>0 then the source time function is a boxcar.

.TP
.B tt={float}
The boxcar rise time in seconds.  If tt=0 and tr>0 then the source time function is a triangle.

.TP
.B [no]noise 
add white Gaussian noise

.TP
.B nMw={float}
If noise then enter the level of the noise in units of Mw for freq band of interest

.TP
.B seed={integer}
If noise then enter the random seed for noise

.TP
.B type={integer}
Source Input Mode Type where type=0 Input Moment Tensor, type=1 Input Pure Deviatoric Source (Strike/Dip/Rake)
and type=2 Input Pure Deviatoric source plus isotropic component

.TP
.B If type=0 Mxx={float} Myy={float} Mzz={float} Mxy={float} Mxz={float} Myz={float} 
Normalized Moment Tensor Elements

.TP
.B If type=0 Mo={float}
Total Seismic Moment in Dyne Cm.

.TP
.B If type=1 str={float} dip={float} rake={float}
Fault Strike, dip, and rake in degrees.  Aki's convention.

.TP
.B If type=1 Mw={float}
Scalar seismic moment magnitude.

.TP
.B If type=2 str={float} dip={float} rake={float}
Fault Strike, dip, and rake in degrees.  Aki's convention.

.TP
.B If type=2 Mw= Piso=
Total Moment Magnitude and The percent of the total moment allocated to isotropic

.SH Example
.br
Compute synthetics for station CMB at 10 km depth with the following strike-slip focal mechanism.
.br
.br
.TP 
.B grnlib2sac glib=CMB.BK.wus.glib z=10 nonoise type=1 str=359 dip=89 rak=-179 Mw=5.1 tr=0 tt=0

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR mkgrnlib (1),
.IR grnlib2sac (1),
.IR sacdata2inv (1),
.IR mtinv (1)
.IR rdseed (1)
