.TH MKGRNLIB 1 "20 Feb 2009"  "MTINV version 2.0" "MTINV Toolkit V2.0"
.SH NAME 
mkgrnlib  \- Makes the Green's function library for a single source station pair
.SH SYNOPSIS
mkgrnlib par= stnm= net=
.br
 
.br

or
.br

.br

mkgrnlib stnm= net= velmod= zrange= evla= evlo= dt= nt= fmax= t0= redv= damp= kmax= eps= smin=
modeldb= stadb= [no]verbose [no]dump

.SH DESCRIPTION
mkgrnlib reads in a parameter file and/or command line arguments which points to a station database file in rdseed format, a 1D velocity
model file in simple ASCII column format, and several parameters including source and receiver
latitude and longitude, number of points, sampling rate, and source depth interval.  The program then computes
the Green's functions using the f-k reflectivity methodology of Zeng and Anderson (1995).  The output is a
binary formatted file with the Green's functions as a function of depth and the ten (ZSS, ZDS, ZDD, ZEP, RSS, RDS, RDD, REP, TSS, TDS) 
fundamental faulting orientations.  

.SH REQUIRED PARAMETERS

.TP
.B stnm={string}
The station code name in the same capitalization and spelling
as typed in column one of the station database file [required no default].  The path to
the station database for is defined by the parameter \fIstadb\fP.  The station
database file is in rdseed format.  Try \fIrdseed -S -f foobar.seed\fP to extract the station file.  The station code has 
an eight character length limit.

.TP
.B net={string}
The network code name (see www.FDSN.org) in the same capitalization and spelling as
typed in column 2 of the the station database file [required no default]. The station
database file is in rdseed format.  Try \fIrdseed -S -f foobar.seed\fP to extract the station file.  The network code 
has an eight character length limit.

.TP
.B velmod={string}
The file name of the velocity model without the .mod extension.  The path is defined by \fImodeldb\fP (see below).
[required no default].

.TP
.B zrange={floating point number},{floating point number},{floating point number}
The minimum, interval and maximum values of the centroid source depth in (kilometers) for 
the Green's function library [required no default].  

.TP
.B evla={floating point number}
The earthquake latitude in decimal degrees format [required no default].

.TP
.B evlo={floating point number}
The earthquake longitude in decimal degrees format [required no default].

.TP
.B dt={floating point number}
The Green's function sampling rate in seconds per sample  [required no default].

.TP
.B nt={integer number}
The number of points for the Green's functions.  Must be a power of 2 (i.e., 64, 128, 256, 512, 1024, 2048(maximum))
[required no default].

.TP
.B eps={floating point number}
Error tolerance.  Typically values of \fIeps\fP=0.001 to \fIeps\fP=0.000001 are adequate.  When \fIkmax\fP or \fIfmax\fP are not set 
properly mkgrnlib will exit and ask to reset these values.  This feature can be controlled by \fIeps\fP and \fIsmin\fP.
[required no default].

.TP
.B smin={floating point number}
Error tolerance.  Typically values of \fIsmin\fP=0.001 to \fIsmin\fP=0.000001 are adequate.  When \fIkmax\fP or \fIfmax\fP are not set properly mkgrnlib will exit and ask to reset these values.  This feature can be controlled by \fIeps\fP and \fIsmin\fP.
[required no default].

.TP
.B modeldb={string}
The path to the model database directory.
[required no default].

.TP
.B stadb={string}
The path and file name to the station database.  The file is in rdseed format.
[required no default].

.SH OPTIONAL PARAMETERS

.TP
.B par={string}
The name of the parameter file [optional no default].  Allows all or some of the 
parameters to be defined in a file rather than
on the command line.  This is ideal for static parameters, for example,
\fImodeldb\fP and \fIstadb\fP, which may not change for each new run.

.TP
.B fmax={floating point number}
The Green's function maximum frequency content.  The absolute maximum is the Nyquist frequency.  
For moment tensor inversion, the
Nyquist frequency is too high for fmax and can be lowered without loss of information.  This speeds calculation time
significantly.  Typically \fIfmax\fP can be set to 0.5 seconds when inverting 100 to 10 sec period waves
[optional, default is Nyquist frequency=1/(2*dt)].
                                                                                                                                                 
.TP
.B t0={floating point number}
The time of the first sample in the Green's function, (\fIt0\fP=0 is the earthquake origin time) 
[optional, default is \fIt0\fP=0.0]
                                                                                                                                                 
.TP
.B redv={floating point number}
The reduction velocity in km/sec [optional, default is \fIredv\fP=-1.0 (no reduction velocity)].  To avoid
wasting time computing Green's function for times before the first arrival particularly when the origin-time
is used as the time of the first sample at large distances.  The reduction velocity can move the time of the
first sample to a later time based on a horizontal apparent velocity.

.TP
.B damp={floating point number}
The value damp is for the exp(-damp*(pi/twin)*t) exponential function for dampening the
rap around effects in the time domain. 
When the length of the time history is too short, then the seismic surface waves may
rap around to the beginning of the Green's function
because of the cyclic nature of the FFT [optional, default off \fIdamp\fP=1.0].
                                                                                                                                                 
.TP
.B kmax={integer number}
Similar to fmax but for maximum spatial frequency (k=wave number).  Warning low fmax and kmax values may led to instability and inaccuracies
in the calculations.  [optional, default is kmax=10000000].  Typically kmax=20000 is adequate for most moment tensor inversions.
                                                                                                                                                 
.TP
.B verbose={integer=1 or 0}
Verbosy output for debugging is \fIverbose\fP=1 and for no verbosy output is \fIverbose\fP=0 [optional, default no verbose=0].

.TP
.B dump={integer=1 or 0}
Write out "Dump" the Green's functions as SAC formatted binary files [optional, default no dump=0].

.SH VELOCITY MODEL FILE FORMAT
###
.br
### Western US model Ritsema and Lay 1995 JGR.
.br
###
.br
### thick Vp     Qp      Vs    Qs      rho
.br
###  (km) (km/s)        (km/s)         (g/cc)
.br
   4.00  4.52   500.00  2.61   250.00  2.39
.br
  28.00  6.21   500.00  3.59   250.00  2.76
.br
  20.00  7.73  1000.00  4.34   500.00  3.22
.br
 700.00  7.64  1000.00  4.29   500.00  3.19
.br
.sp

.SH Example entries in the station database file
GSC CI +35.301800 -116.805700  +954.0 "BHE BHN BHZ" "Goldstone, California, USA" 1990,220,00:00:00 2599,365,23:59:59
.br
.sp
BAR CI +32.680100 -116.672200  +496.0 "BHE BHN BHZ" "Barrett, California, USA" 1992,275,00:00:00 2599,365,23:59:59
.br

.SH EXAMPLE
To calculate the Green's functions of an earthquake in Anza, California (latitude=33.529, longitude=-116.573) 
at the UC Berkeley digital seismograph 
station Columbia (CMB.BK) within the central Sierra Nevada, California,
for depths of 2 to 22 km in 2 km increments (i.e., 2,4,6,8,10,12,14,16,18,20,and 22 km).  
The Western U.S. velocity model is used and the time histories will be computed up to 0.5 Hz,
at a sampling rate of 0.2 samples per second and a total of 1024 points (204.8 seconds).  
.br
.sp
\fBmkgrnlib\fP
evla=33.529 
evlo=-116.573 
zrange=2,2,22 
velmod=wus \\
.br
  dt=0.2
nt=1024
fmax=0.5
eps=0.0005
smin=0.0005 \\
.br
  modeldb=/Users/ichinose/mtinv.v0.9/modeldb/ \\
.br
  stadb=/Users/ichinose/mtinv.v0.9/stadb/station_database.txt

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR glib2inv (1),
.IR grnlib2sac (1),
.IR sacdata2inv (1),
.IR mtinv (1)
.IR rdseed (1)
