.TH SACDATA2INV 1 "20 Feb 2009" "MTINV version 2.0" "MTINV Toolkit V2.0"

.SH NAME 
sacdata2inv \- processes and filters the SAC formatted data files for moment tensor inversion by mtinv

.SH SYNOPSIS
sacdata2inv par= path= respdir= [no]verbose [no]dumpsac

.SH DESCRIPTION
sacdata2inv takes input from both the command line and the parameter file from
glib2inv about the station information and 
SAC formatted binary file locations and
generates input files for moment tensor inversion using "mtinv".  The directories of the SAC files
and Sac Pole and Zero response correction files are scanned automatically.  The data files
are processed, detrended, bandpass filtered, interpolated, windowed, scaled to the correct units,
tapered and rotated into the Vertical, Radial and Transverse (Z,R,T) coordinate system.  

.SH REQUIRED PARAMETERS

.TP
.B par={string}
The file name of the parameter file.  See format of this file below (PARAMETER FILE FORMAT).

.TP
.B path={string}
The relative or absolute path to where the SAC files are stored. Use rdseed -d -p -f myrdseed.seed to
extract SAC and SAC pole zero files from a seed file.  

.TP
.B respdir={string}
The relative or absolute path to where the SAC pole zero files are stored.  Use rdseed -d -p -f myrdseed.seed to
extract SAC and SAC pole zero files from a seed file.

.SH OPTIONAL PARAMETERS

.TP
.B [no]verbose
Verbosy output for debugging is \fIverbose\fP and for no verbosy output is \fInoverbose\fP [optional, default no verbose].

.TP
.B [no]dumpsac
Write out "Dump" the processed data as SAC formatted binary files [optional, default nodump].

.SH PARAMETER FILE FORMAT

.B same format as par file for GLIB2INV(1)
                                                                                                                  
.TP
.B #
A '#' in the first column signifies that the following is a non printing comment
                                                                                                                  
.TP
.B CM
A 'CM ' in columns 1-3 marks the beginning of a comment, typically the region, area, city and country name
for reference purposes only.
                                                                                                                  
.TP
.B OT
A 'OT ' in columns 1-3 is followed by the earthquake origin time string in year/month/day,hour:minute:seconds format, (e.g.,
2005/06/12,15:41:46.000 ).  Origin time is required for setting the origin time in the
synthetics and shifting the observed seismograms in time to improve the fit the synthetics and percent double couple component.
                                                                                                                  
.TP
.B  EV
A 'EV ' in columns 1-3 is followed by six free formatted floating point values:  strike, dip, rake, Mw, event_longitude, event_latitude, and event_depth.  Only event_longitude and event_latitude need to be set for the correct calculation of the source and receiver azimuth and distance.  Should be the same as the \fIevla=\fP and \fIevlo=\fP values used to calculate the Green's function library using "mkgrnlib".  Other values can be set to zero and are only used to forward calculate synthetic ground displacements when the dump option is set (dumpsac).
                                                                                                                  
.TP
All other lines are for station and synthetic data processing parameters.  There are 18 columns in the following order:
.sp
.B sta, net, model, np, pas, lf, hf, nt, dt, tr, tt, grdmo, mulfac, used, ts, Zmulfac, Rmulfac, Tmulfac.

.B sta=
station code (see stadb file).
                                                                                                                                    
.B net=
network code (see stadb file).
                                                                                                                                    
.B model=
velocity model name (without .mod extension)
                                                                                                                                    
.B np=
number of poles (0,1,2,3,4,5,...) for Butterworth bandpass filter
                                                                                                                                    
.B pas=
number of passes (1 or 2) for Butterworth bandpass filter
                                                                                                                                    
.B lf=
low frequency corner in Hz for Butterworth bandpass filter
                                                                                                                                    
.B hf=
high frequency corner in Hz for Butterworth bandpass filter
                                                                                                                                    
.B nt=
number of points (in power of 2)
                                                                                                                                    
.B dt=
sampling rate in sec/sample
                                                                                                                                    
.B tr=
rise time or duration of ramp in trapezoid function in seconds
                                                                                                                                    
.B tt=
duration of boxcar portion of trapezoid function in seconds (tt=0 then triangle function of duration 2*tr)

.B grdmo=
Ground motion type is either 'd' for displacement or 'v' for velocity (no default)
                                                                                                                                    
.B mulfac=
Multiplcation factor applied to all components for this station. Useful for applying gain corrections easily.
Default is 1.
                                                                                                                                    
.B used=
Use this station for inversion 'y' or just make a preduction 'n'
                                                                                                                                    
.B ts=
Time shift for all components in seconds.  Negative is backward time shift in time and positive shifts are forward shift in time.
Default is 0;
                                                                                                                                    
.B Zmulfac=
Vertical component multplication factor
                                                                                                                                    
.B Rmulfac=
Radial component multplication factor
                                                                                                                                    
.B Tmulfac=
Transverse component multplication factor
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
.SH EXAMPLE PARAMETER FILE (glib2inv.par)
.br
#### Region Comment ####
.br
CM Anza, California
.br
#### Origin Time ####
.br
#   year/mo/da,hr:mn:sec
.br
OT 2005/06/12,15:41:46.00
.br
#### Forward calculations ####
.br
#    str dip  rak  Mw    evlo      evla     Z
.br
EV   41  87    29  5.1  -116.573  33.529    14
.br
#
.br
BAR  CI  wus   3  2   0.03 0.10 256 0.25 0.0 0.0  d    1.0    y   0.0  1.0   1.0     1.0
.br
GSC  CI  wus   3  2   0.02 0.08 256 0.4  0.0 0.0  d    1.0    y   0.0  1.0   1.0     1.0
.br
                                                                                                                                    
.SH Example C-Shell Script
.br
#!/bin/csh
.br
sacdata2inv par=glib2inv.par path=./IRIS respdir=./Resp noverbose nodumpsac \\
.br

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR glib2inv (1),
.IR grnlib2sac (1),
.IR mkgrnlib (1),
.IR mtinv (1),
.IR rdseed (1),
